Feat: Howto for running local networking infra (#594)
holochain/docs-pages: src/pages/resources/howtos/running-network-infrastructure.md

* The Docker compose file above configures the server as an open relay without authentication; we're working on making it easier to [build authentication](https://github.com/holochain/sbd/blob/main/spec-auth.md) appropriate for your hApp.
* You'll need to size your server instance for your expected peak level of usage --- it may be helpful to simulate this using a multi-conductor [Tryorama](/build/testing-with-tryorama/) test or real humans. Depending on your server specs and bandwidth, the server binary can theoretically scale to support thousands of concurrent peers, with a couple hundred using relayed connections.
* The server hasn't been tested extensively with Holochain in high-load or failure scenarios.
!!!

## Configure your hApp to use your bootstrap server

<!-- TODO: eventually it should be possible to specify the server URLs in the DNA manifest. When that happens, add instructions here. See https://github.com/holochain/holochain/issues/4761 -->

> To use your server in testing, and to test that the server is running and accessible, open your project's `package.json` file and edit the following line:

Author: added in https://github.com/holochain/docs-pages/pull/594/commits/22340474670f45d3b6b0b9720bae16d94294ab62

<!-- TODO(upgrade): update the package.json file with any changes, and bump dep version numbers -->

```diff:json
 ...
   "scripts": {
-    "start": "AGENTS=${AGENTS:-3} BOOTSTRAP_PORT=$(get-port) npm run network",
+    "start": "AGENTS=${AGENTS:-3} npm run network",
     "network": "hc sandbox clean && npm run build:happ && UI_PORT=$(get-port) concurrently \"npm run start --workspace ui\" \"npm run launch:happ\" \"hc playground\"",
     "test": "npm run build:zomes && hc app pack workdir --recursive && npm run test --workspace tests",
     // Replace the hApp bundle name and URLs with your actual values.
-    "launch:happ": "hc-spin -n $AGENTS --ui-port $UI_PORT workdir/my_app.happ",

> +    "launch:happ": "hc-spin -n $AGENTS --ui-port $UI_PORT --bootstrap-url \"https://bootstrap.example.org\" --signaling-url \"wss://bootstrap.example.org\" workdir/my_app.happ",

Author: added in https://github.com/holochain/docs-pages/pull/594/commits/6b4cf6e77cb5d94786cf21ca74bc5a3f010cb28d

     // If you use the Tauri-based launcher, you can also make the following
     // edits.
-    "start:tauri": "AGENTS=${AGENTS:-2} BOOTSTRAP_PORT=$(get-port) npm run network:tauri",
+    "start:tauri": "AGENTS=${AGENTS:-2} npm run network:tauri",
     "network:tauri": "hc sandbox clean && npm run build:happ && UI_PORT=$(get-port) concurrently \"npm run start --workspace ui\" \"npm run launch:tauri\" \"hc playground\"",
-    "launch:tauri": "concurrently \"kitsune2-bootstrap-srv --listen \"127.0.0.1:$BOOTSTRAP_PORT\"\" \"echo pass | RUST_LOG=warn hc launch --piped -n $AGENTS workdir/my_forum_app.happ --ui-port $UI_PORT network --bootstrap http://127.0.0.1:\"$BOOTSTRAP_PORT\" webrtc ws://127.0.0.1:\"$BOOTSTRAP_PORT\"\"",

> +    "launch:tauri": "echo pass | RUST_LOG=warn hc launch --piped -n $AGENTS workdir/my_forum_app.happ --ui-port $UI_PORT network --bootstrap \"https://bootstrap.example.org\" webrtc \"wss://bootstrap.example.org\"",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+    "launch:tauri": "echo pass | RUST_LOG=warn hc launch --piped -n $AGENTS workdir/my_forum_app.happ --ui-port $UI_PORT --network-seed \"bootstrap-testing-network-only\" network --bootstrap \"https://bootstrap.example.org\" webrtc \"wss://bootstrap.example.org\"",
```

---
title: Running Network Infrastructure
---

::: intro

> This howto will walk you through downloading, configuring and running a Docker setup that provides a bootstrap, signal, and relay server for a Holochain application. This server is necessary to help peers discover each other over the public internet and establish a peer-to-peer WebRTC connection, and it also provides a message relay service as a fallback in case a WebRTC session can't be established.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This how-to will walk you through downloading, configuring and running a Docker setup that provides a bootstrap and a signal/relay server for a Holochain application. This server is necessary to help peers discover each other over the public internet and establish a direct peer-to-peer connection, and it also provides a message relay service as a fallback in case a direct connection can't be established.
```

The signal and relay functionality isn't separate, it's one protocol that does both.

> This howto will walk you through downloading, configuring and running a Docker setup that provides a bootstrap, signal, and relay server for a Holochain application. This server is necessary to help peers discover each other over the public internet and establish a peer-to-peer WebRTC connection, and it also provides a message relay service as a fallback in case a WebRTC session can't be established.

Reviewer 2: I wonder if recommending Docker specifically is the right thing to do. It's a well-known product and people are free to use it if they want. But there are other options. I chose to use Podman for our deployment.

If people choose Docker, they have to be aware of its licensing https://docs.docker.com/subscription/desktop-license/

Author: wow, I didn't know that about licensing. Edited in https://github.com/holochain/docs-pages/pull/594/commits/99f9a27fe383a98221e56436b06d7f969aed806e and https://github.com/holochain/docs-pages/pull/594/commits/939c2114b2070c43fb02ac233fce0f09850a44a1

:::

The [kitsune2 bootstrap server](https://github.com/holochain/kitsune2/tree/main/crates/bootstrap_srv) provides:

* Peer discovery on the public internet

> * WebRTC signalling between peers
> * Optionally, a WebSocket-based fallback relay server for peers who can't establish a direct WebRTC connection in the signalling step

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* WebSocket signalling for WebRTC connection setup between peers
* The same WebSocket protocol can be used as a relay by peers who can't establish a direct connection to each other in the signalling step
```

Author: edited in

> A hApp that's meant for use on the public internet will need these services in order to operate.

Reviewer 2: Holochain won't work on a private network without this either though. It's just necessary for Holochain. 

You can theoretically bypass bootstrap by directly transferring agent infos but there is no connection establishment alternative to the signal server on any network.

!!! info Public server
The Holochain Foundation provides a public bootstrap and relay server at `https://dev-test-bootstrap2.holochain.org/` that you're welcome to use for testing. It's not appropriate for production hApps, though, because it's low-bandwidth and has no uptime guarantees.
!!!

## Requirements

> * A Linux server or cloud instance

Reviewer 2: I don't believe there's a platform dependency from our code. Anywhere that a container engine can run a Linux container image will do.

Author: edited in https://github.com/holochain/docs-pages/pull/594/commits/32d5155ae7e40386453b8ed08cb3302669fdcada and https://github.com/holochain/docs-pages/pull/594/commits/ce751241234eb1576e1408384fa12572cd46cfbd

* Docker with docker-compose v2 installed on the server

> * TLS certificate and key files for your server's domain name stored in the server's filesystem in [PEM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Privacy-Enhanced_Mail) format -- we recommend using Let's Encrypt [certbot](https://certbot.eff.org/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* TLS certificate and key files for your server's domain name stored in the server's filesystem in [PEM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Privacy-Enhanced_Mail) format. In this guide we're using certificates issued by Let's Encrypt and managed by [certbot](https://certbot.eff.org/). You can choose any other method of issuing certificates, as long as the certificates will be trusted by your users.
```

Certbot is an automation tool, and Let's Encrypt is a certificate provider, they function together but are distinct.

## Create a Docker compose file

> Create a `docker-compose.yaml` file in an appropriate place in your server's filesystem, then open it for editing. Here we'll be storing the file in `/var/kitsune2-bootstrap` and opening it in Visual Studio Code:

Author: edited in https://github.com/holochain/docs-pages/pull/594/commits/ce751241234eb1576e1408384fa12572cd46cfbd

```bash
sudo mkdir -p /var/kitsune2-bootstrap
```
```bash
cd /var/kitsune2-bootstrap
```
```bash

> sudo code docker-compose.yaml

Author: sorry, missed this comment so I ended up editing it in both https://github.com/holochain/docs-pages/commit/ce751241234eb1576e1408384fa12572cd46cfbd and https://github.com/holochain/docs-pages/pull/594/commits/832008ac9e8f028b7da22926f76c1a7dff73c12c

      - --tls-cert
      - /etc/letsencrypt/live/bootstrap.example.org/fullchain.pem
      - --tls-key
      - /etc/letsencrypt/live/bootstrap.example.org/privkey.pem
      # You can change this value to limit relay server bandwidth.
      - --sbd-limit-ip-kbps
      - "100000"
      # You can also specify a burst rate in kilobytes per second.
      - --sbd-limit-ip-byte-burst
      - "26000000"
    environment:
      - RUST_LOG=info
    network_mode: host
    volumes:
        # Replace this with the path to the TLS certificate files on the host
        # and your desired mount point inside the container, in this format:
        # <host path>:<mount point>
      - /etc/letsencrypt/:/etc/letsencrypt/
    restart: unless-stopped
```

!!! info Tuning the bootstrap server's performance
There are other parameters you can pass to `kitsune2-bootstrap-srv` to configure it and tune its performance. Download the bootstrap server Docker image and run the following command to see them all:

<!-- TODO(upgrade): Update the docker image URL -->
```bash
docker pull ghcr.io/holochain/kitsune2_bootstrap_srv:v0.2.11
```
```bash

> sudo docker run -it ghcr.io/holochain/kitsune2_bootstrap_srv:v0.2.11 kitsune2-bootstrap-srv --help

Author: edited in https://github.com/holochain/docs-pages/pull/594/commits/939c2114b2070c43fb02ac233fce0f09850a44a1

```
!!!

## Run the container

Test the configuration:

```bash
sudo docker compose up
```

You should see a lot of log messages, ending with this line:

::: output-block
```text
bootstrap-1  | #kitsune2_bootstrap_srv#listening#[::]:443#
```
:::

If you see this, you know your server is running and should be able to respond to requests from Holochain conductors. You can now run the container in detached/daemon mode:

```bash
sudo docker compose up -d
```

!!! info Running a production server
At this point your bootstrap server is ready for testing, but it probably isn't ready for production use. Operating a secured, highly-available service is outside of the scope of this documentation. Here are things to know:

> * A DHT must be served by only one server, and the server's database is in-memory,<!-- TODO: check that fact --> so it can't be made high-availability via redundancy.

Author: edited in https://github.com/holochain/docs-pages/pull/594/commits/723a732b37e0f72aacc0636a604f2dc27f845a5c , with subsequent edits in https://github.com/holochain/docs-pages/pull/594/commits/f98ad6da39683a8665a8c5f634253bffaa1aa5d5

* The Docker compose file above configures the server as an open relay without authentication; we plan to write instructions for configuring authentication once this feature is more fully tested.
* You'll need to size your server instance for your expected peak level of usage --- it may be helpful to simulate this using a multi-conductor [Tryorama](/build/testing-with-tryorama/) test or real humans.
!!!

## Configure your hApp to use your bootstrap server

<!-- TODO: eventually it should be possible to specify the server URLs in the DNA manifest. When that happens, add instructions here. See https://github.com/holochain/holochain/issues/4761 -->

To use your server in testing, and to test that the server is running and accessible, open your project's `package.json` file and edit the following line:

<!-- TODO(upgrade): update the package.json file with any changes, and bump dep version numbers -->

```diff:json
 {
   "name": "my_app-dev",
   "private": true,
   "workspaces": [
     "ui",
     "tests"
   ],
   "scripts": {
     "start": "AGENTS=${AGENTS:-3} BOOTSTRAP_PORT=$(get-port) npm run network",

>      "network": "hc sandbox clean && npm run build:happ && UI_PORT=$(get-port) concurrently \"npm run start --workspace ui\" \"npm run launch:happ\" \"hc playground\"",

Author: https://github.com/holochain/docs-pages/pull/594/commits/f6e095e53c6a00e9e8c5b5c31fc69229e12d89e7

sudo mkdir -p /opt/kitsune2-bootstrap
```
```bash
sudo touch /opt/kitsune2-bootstrap/docker-compose.yaml
```
```bash
sudo chown $(whoami) /opt/kitsune2-bootstrap/docker-compose.yaml

> ```bash

Reviewer 3: remove this line

Author: actually what's wrong here is that I failed to close the preceding block. It's ugly to read, but it formats nicely and makes it easier to copy individual commands to the clipboard (our code snippets have copy buttons on them). Fixed in https://github.com/holochain/docs-pages/pull/594/commits/9fe853c7ae425eef4cca7a2b34357ccbae0d5541
